There is an alternate universe,
and in it
another version of us.
Previously on Fringe...
We know who our
enemy is now.
His name is
David Robert Jones.
He's a scientist.
Jones is responsible
for dosing Agent Dunham
with Cortexiphan.
For what purpose?
He was trying to activate
some kind of latent ability.
What are you doing,
Olivia?
I'm turning on
the lights.
I have discovered David Robert
Jones' true intentions.
Jones is trying to collapse
both universes.
Mutual destruction.
And create a world designed
and controlled by him.
Any way to stop Jones?
I'm afraid we have
to close the bridge.
I think
I shall miss them.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Hi, Neal.
Cafe mocha, 1%,
no whip?
- That's it.
- Jill, can you
get that started?
That'll be $4.80.
Enjoy.
Are you okay?
What's happening to them?
Don't move.
I think when they move,
they die.
Nobody move!
♪ Fringe 4x21 ♪
Brave New World, Part 1 of 2
Original Air Date on May 4, 2012
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
Medford?
No.
Holliston?
Uh, only if
I am being punished.
Wayburn?
Only if I'm dead.
All right.
How about Lexington?
Three beds, central heat
and air, dog run.
Did you know that I had a lab
when I was growing up?
No, I thought
you were allergic.
I was, but Walter made him
non-allergenic.
It's got a working fireplace
in the bedroom.
Nursery?
Nursery.
What's he doing?
No! O--
over by the second woman!
The one that's still smoking.
No, you ninny.
The next one over!
Walter.
You are going to
freeze, God!
Why must you always
mother hen me?
I'm quite capable
of looking after myself.
I know,
but just humor me.
Maybe
I like doing it.
We're good.
No airborne toxins.
Thank you.
Walter!
Don't forget your--
- I need my kit.
- Yeah.
Please,
do something.
Help us.
Maybe the deaths are associated
with this mobile transaction.
No, Walter, this is just
how people pay for things now.
Hmm?
Uh, he probably
just bought that coffee.
Huh.
What will they
think of next?
All we know so far, at 3:23 p.m.
more than two dozen people
experienced some kind of
spontaneous human combustion.
You know that's a myth,
right?
There are
survivors.
Remaining still seems to have
halted the ignition process.
For now.
Do have any idea
what's caused this?
I'm hoping Dr. Bishop can help
shed some light on that.
Okay, my friend.
Let's see
what secrets you hold.
Hmm.
I--I had a watch
similar to this once.
My Uncle gave it to me.
Uncle Heinrich.
He loved rhubarb.
- He was always--
- Am I gonna die?
I--I can't answer that.
Not yet.
What are you?
What am--
I'm human.
What are you?
Is this some sort of
alien invasion?
Are you part of
a strike f--
No, I mean--I mean,
what are you doing here?
Are you a doctor?
Oh, no.
I'm a scientist.
Oh.
Uh...
May I take
a blood sample?
The discomfort
will only be momentary.
That's what
all you men say.
You are very brave.
Go on, then.
I'm sorry...
Um, where did you get this
smudging on your fingertips?
I don't know.
The escalator,
maybe?
Her blood
definitely shows signs
of a foreign incursion
at the cellular level.
Viral?
We're gonna have to get it back
to the lab to be sure.
What sort of virus
are you?
If you were aerolized,
you would have infected
everyone,
not just those
on the escalator.
If you were harbored
on a water tap or a doorknob,
the first few contacts
would have wiped you clean.
What would have kept you
fresh and so infectious,
my lethal friend?
Agent, I think
we found something.
Oh, dear.
This is not a virus
at all.
Well,
then what is it?
The escalator is infested
with nanites.
Nanites?
Microscopic self-replicating
robotics.
There's a machine
that's generating them.
Despite their itty-bitty size,
each of them
is capable of storing
a tremendous amount of energy,
and it would seem
they can be overloaded
by the bio-kinetic
energy
stored in the cells
of anyone infected.
You mean,
these people's movement
is what's activating
the nanites?
That's what I just said.
And the longer
they are in the bloodstream,
the more sensitive
they become,
so that the slightest exertion
can trigger the overload.
Causing them
to spontaneously combust.
Like a soda pop bottle
after shaking.
Okay, so who would do this,
and how do we stop it?
I don't know.
I need my lab.
But we can't move them,
Walter.
How are we gonna get
one of these people to your--
Very carefully.
Walter,
we can't risk it.
I don't know how long
they have left,
even without
moving them.
I can't be certain.
Do you have
any kind of insurance?
I mean, if I volunteer
for your experiment
and something goes wrong,
what happens,
you know,
to my next of kin?
The Bureau
takes care of you.
Everybody that we work on
is fully-covered.
It's in the regs.
Okay.
You can use me.
Whatever you need.
I'm sorry,
what's your name?
Jessica Holt.
Do you know
what you're saying, Jessica?
Yeah, I do.
I need a solid-board
stretcher.
Uh, and some ice packs
and a blanket.
Must seem
a little bizarre, huh?
Well, I'm an E.R. nurse.
Night shifts on Fridays,
that's bizarre.
If there anything
that I can do to make it
a little more pleasant,
please let me know.
Actually, there is.
Um, could you get
my phone for me, please?
It's in my handbag.
Of course.
Thank you.
Mike, it's me.
No, I know.
Um. Yeah.
Listen,
I, um, I need you
to pick up Sarah
after school for me,
please.
No, I--I know
it's not your day,
um, but, you know,
please, Mike.
Um, I'll explain it
to you later, okay?
Okay, bye.
- Thanks.
- Of course.
Olivia, how long until this
antidote is ready?
I'll just
check with Walter.
How close are we?
We're starting to see
first results now.
But how long
is it going to take?
At this rate, it's gonna be
at least a couple more minutes.
Hey, Walter, her temperature's
rising rapidly.
How rapidly?
Uh, two degrees
in the past 23 seconds.
What about
an ice bath?
No, that won't help.
Just try to keep her calm.
Jessica?
Jessica, I just want you
to focus on me, okay?
Okay.
Peter,
grab
the ammonium nitrate.
You want to speed up
the condensation?
Unless you have
a better idea.
Walter,
she's at 104 degrees.
Uh, we need
60 seconds more.
We don't have
60 seconds.
Oh, my God.
Get away from me!
Oh, here.
Jessica,
just focus
on your breathing.
Walter!
40 sec--
seconds more!
How are you
doing that?
Her temperature's
dropping.
Oh--
she's okay.
How did you do that?
I have no idea.
This should
permanently remove
and neutralize the nanites
in your system.
Thank you.
I can breathe now.
You and a lot
of other people.
Walter, do you have any idea
what just happened to me?
I could make
an educated guess.
Cortexiphan has given you
certain kinetic powers.
Moving molecules
so quickly
that you can create
spontaneous combustion, yes?
Well, perhaps in this case,
you slowed the molecules down,
causing her
to cool down.
But how
did I do it?
I'm afraid
I have no idea.
I should
get her home.
You'll let me know what happens
with the others, then?
I will,
but now that
the antidote's
been synthesized,
they'll all be fine,
thanks to you.
Thank you.
I don't know how you did it,
but you did.
You know, not everybody
would volunteer
to be Walter's
guinea pig.
It wasn't really for me.
I've got a four-foot-tall
redhead at home
who's constantly in dire need
of mac and cheese
and help with her math.
And her father's an idiot.
Well,
if you ever need help
getting to the head
of the line in an E.R...
And listen, if you find
that you have any more symptoms,
give me a call.
I will.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Bye.
- Dunham.
-  We know who's responsible
for the nanites.
This was taken
ten minutes before
the first victim
was reported.
Another camera picked him up
leaving the scene,
but we lost him
after that.
Well, at least we know
Jones is in our universe.
So what does infecting
a bunch of people with nanites
have to do with
ending the world?
I mean,
everything Jones has done
has been in service of
collapsing our two universes
in order
to create a third.
But destroying the bridge
ruined that plan.
As far as we know.
You think he found
another way
to create his own universe
in place of ours?
I don't know.
But we do know Jones.
We know he's not
gonna just give up.
No.
That can't be.
A chimeric structure in nanites.
I don't believe it.
That was Olivia.
David Robert Jones
is definitely behind this.
Walter,
what is it?
A hundred different ways
to design a nanite,
and he chose this.
It's inconceivable.
Not by chance.
Jones isn't smart enough,
not by himself.
Wait,
what are you saying?
Jones didn't create
these nanites.
They're not
his design!
There's only
one person
who would construct
this particular pattern.
Who?
I have bad news, sir.
Agent Dunham
has stopped us again.
Don't be so sure.
Olivia beat us
today.
Clearly, you don't
seem concerned.
Don't confuse a winning move
with a winning game.
This board
never changes.
How long do you take
between moves?
Since
the last move...
about 20 years.
In this game,
the skill one must have
above all else
is patience.
The board changes,
but very slowly.
The art of chess,
the art is knowing
when a piece
is most valuable,
and then,
in that very moment,
being willing
to sacrifice it.
For in the vacuum
created by the loss
of what is most precious,
opportunity abounds,
influence
is maximized,
and desire becomes
destiny.
For example,
on this board,
the most valuable piece
is the Bishop,
therefore,
for the game to be won...
The Bishop
must be sacrificed.
I'll attend to it.
Promptly.
He's alive.
I'm telling you, he's alive
I knew that Jones's plan
was too ingenious,
too remarkable,
that it had to have
come from Belly.
He's alive, Nina.
The nanotech that Jones used
on the escalator,
I've examined them.
They were built by Belly.
I--I'd recognize
his work anywhere.
His methodology
was all ov--
Jones had access to many
projects at Massive Dynamic.
He could simply have copied
William's research--
Nina, it was the work of
a master, not an imposter!
I know the difference.
Walter said that Bell died
in a car accident
on New Year's day
seven years ago?
Yes. I went to the hospital.
I saw his body.
But it wasn't New Year's,
it was Christmas.
I--I always thought
that he died on New Year,
because he came to visit me
the night before to say goodbye.
Walter, what are you
talking about?
When I was in St. Claire's,
Belly came to visit me.
It was
New Year's Eve, 2005.
They gave me additional shocks
that day just to celebrate,
so I can't remember
what he said.
Nina, I know
you loved him--
Oh, Walter,
just stop it!
The car crash
wasn't an accident.
William had lymphoma.
He'd been trying to fight it,
but...
I think he didn't want me
to see him that way anymore.
He didn't want
to be vulnerable.
He wanted to go out
on his own terms, and he did.
It's still possible--
Oh, Walter,
anything is possible,
but the man I knew wouldn't try
to destroy a universe.
That doesn't
sound like William.
Fine.
I'll prove it to you.
If my son is not too busy
monitoring my cure,
I'd like him
to meet us.
Where?
Well, well...
Wally Bishop.
Hey, Doc,
you just visiting, or are you
coming back to stay for awhile?
Good news.
The administrator
can see us now.
Everything okay?
Fine.
I'm sorry,
we're still transitioning
to a more up-to-date
record-keeping system.
Federal funding
isn't all it used to be.
In fairness, I'm told
it never was particularly good,
so, technically, it never was
what it used to be.
I guess now
it's just worse.
But I'm confident these
are all the visitor logs
during the period
of Dr. Bishop's--
incarceration.
I was going to say
"treatment."
It has a nicer sound,
and I like to think
is more reflective
of what we do here.
Would you, now?
What about your
surveillance archives?
Uh, security cameras?
I'm afraid our current mainframe
storage capacity is limited.
The institution doesn't keep
anything older than two years.
How convenient.
Walter,
Dr. Benlo has been
cooperating fully.
Do you see anything
in those
that suggests the logs
have been doctored?
No.
Matter of fact,
they're perfect.
Very thorough.
Every single individual
logged in and out.
And?
No William Bell.
Walter, you said you had been
having a lot of shock therapy.
Do you think perhaps he
could have been a hallucination?
No.
No, no.
My hallucinations were rarely
biped and never men.
Dr. Bishop, are you--
Crazy?
No.
May I borrow this?
Uh, um,
well, those records have
already been digitized, I--I--
Thank you.
Let's go.
I must say,
you're much prettier
than your predecessor.
I still don't know why Walter
needed that log book,
and he's not telling me,
and he won't back off
that Bell thing, either.
Oh, man.
Oh.
One, second, hold on.
I got it.
God.
Oh, that's got to smart.
That's what happens
when you drink and mince.
Thank you.
What's the matter?
You worried about Walter too,
'cause honestly,
you shouldn't be.
I'm sure he's--
No, I'm not thinking about
Walter.
I was thinking about
that girl, Jessica.
Oh, one encounter with us
and her child
almost becomes an orphan.
And we deal with this
every day.
We're playing the odds,
Peter.
I mean, what do you
really think
our chances are
of having a normal life?
Olivia, I know
you're scared about
what happened in the lab
yesterday.
I don't know
what's happening to me.
What I'm becoming.
I've got this--
this power inside me
that terrifies me
because I don't
understand it,
and I just--
I just want it out.
Okay.
So we'll
figure it out.
Together.
Is that
a personal guarantee?
After all
we've been through,
I will not lose you again,
Olivia.
I'm starving.
What's a guy got to do
to get
a good home-cooked meal
around here?
Where are you now?
We're just passing
Kenmore Square.
Now, what do you mean,
it's the sun?
Well, even though
we can't see it,
it's still there
in the sky.
Jones must be
reflecting the light
off of something,
like one of those disco balls,
and then focusing it,
like we do
with a magnifying glass.
Well, how is he
doing that?
Well, I'm not sure yet,
but I have my suspicions.
Yeah, Farnsworth.
Agent ID: JH112402.
And why
is he doing it?
Seems like he's trying
to burn a hole to China.
It's a myth.
Technically,
it would be India,
but I doubt it.
What does this have to do
with nanites? And how do we
even know it's Jones?
So you are now
prepared to concede
that this may well be
the work of William Bell?
- Not my point.
- Okay, thanks.
Satellite imagery?
Yeah, I just got access
to the system.
Radio waves.
It's coming online
right now.
I need geological data
on Beacon Hill.
Walter, which one of these
do you want me to do first?
All of them.
Uh, you said that
Agent Broyles was on-site?
Is he evacuating
the area?
Yes, one square mile
from the center of the beam.
Okay, Walter,
the geological's printing.
Oh, no.
Oh, no, what?
I knew I'd read something
about this.
Three months ago,
a subterranean oil reservoir
was discovered
below Beacon Hill.
What does that mean?
Imagine putting a match
to a can of lighter fluid.
Unless
we stop this soon,
the sunbeam will essentially
set Boston on fire from below.
Uh, Peter, you should
alert Agent Broyles.
Tell him that he'll need
to evacuate an area
uh, with a radius
much wider than one mile.
Well, how much?
All of it.
All of what?
Boston.
We'll call you back.
Walter,
you're right.
There is
a radio frequency
that's not owned
by the government
that's transmitting
in the S-band.
What's the frequency?
2202.518.
Actually,
there's two frequencies.
What?
Also .520.
Of course.
You brilliant bastard,
Belly.
Quick, give me something
to write on.
Dunham.
Turn around, head south!
Towards Beech Street,
on the edge of Chinatown.
Why? What's there?
I believe
that's where Jones
is commanding
the satellites from.
What satellites,
Walter?
I think Jones has commandeered
two private satellites,
or maybe he'd launched them,
and they're
the disco balls that are
bouncing the sunlight
around the planet.
In any case,
I have triangulated the signals,
and they appear to be coming
from the 1600 block
off Beech Street.
Interrupt the signals
and you shut off the sun.
Well, you know
what I mean.
Okay,
we're on our way.
Ah! Get me a knife.
My lemon cake's ready.
Walter,
if you were hungry,
I could've gotten you
something.
This is not about food,
Athos,
this is about Bell.
Where's the knife?
Please, quickly?
Hoo.
All right.
This is the 1600 block.
See anything?
Peter, look.
That antenna.
Do you think
that's what's controlling
the satellites?
Could be.
There's
the other one.
Okay, I'll take this one,
you take the other one.
Okay, but I don't know
what I'm supposed to do.
We got to
turn them off.
We'll just figure it out
when we get up there.
Oh, my God,
that smells terrible.
What is it?
Lemon cake,
laced with pig brain.
- What?
- Hmm?
Lemon cake is
the perfect incubator.
And I thought it was easier
to get pig brain on short notice
than a human specimen.
Is that from the--
the log book at St. Claire's?
Just
the relevant page.
First tried scraping it, hoping
Belly left some DNA behind,
but he was too clever
for that.
Or maybe he was never there
in the first place.
I know none of you
believe me,
which is why I have conducted
this little experiment.
The pig brain
is activating
a little-known side effect
of Cortexiphan,
which is temporary
tissue regeneration.
Heated between
90 and 100 degrees,
the Cortexiphan I have
added to the pig brain
should cause at least
partial regeneration
of all biological matter
on the sheet of paper,
and voila,
fingerprints!
Although...
identifying Belly's prints
from these smudges
may prove impossible,
after all.
What is
that brown mark?
I don't know.
Walter.
As I said,
Cortexiphan is regenerative.
You shouldn't
eat it, though.
Almond oil.
I knew it!
Chilean almonds!
Almonds?
Belly was obsessed
with them.
Even had an agreement
with the importers.
They sold them to him
wholesale.
Must've had the oil
on his fingertips.
Walter,
what are you doing?
I'm going
to find Belly.
A1 Imports,
down by the seaport.
Walter, would you stop?
This is nuts.
I am not crazy.
At least I'll be able to confirm
that he's still alive.
Would you excuse me?
Oh.
What about
Olivia and Peter?
They're doing everything
they can.
There's nothing we can do
to help them.
What do you think
you're gonna find there?
Walter.
Walter!
I know this is
a wild goose chase,
a fool's errand,
and I'm a fool,
but no one is asking you
to join me, Alex.
It's my hunch,
and I'm quite capable
of pursuing it on my own,
so peace out.
I don't--
drive.
Alex?
I was on a roll.
Mm-hmm.
Got it.
You found the control panel?
Yeah.
Now find the dial...
marked
"transmission amplitude."
That's the one that needs
to be tuned all the way down.
Okay, got it.
But not yet!
Not--not--not yet.
Sorry.
We have to do it
together.
If we don't, the beam
could go off-kilter,
cut a swath
across Boston.
It'd be sort of like
"don't cross the streams,"
just, you know,
in reverse.
You know I have no idea
what you're talking about.
Yes, I know.
Okay,
tell me when.
Okay, in three...
two...
one...
Go.
We did it.
Good job.
Oh!
Oh.
Ooh!
Jones!
Oof.
Ah! Ah!
Oh!
Hey! Security!
I--I'm FBI.
Drop your weapon!
I--I can show you my badge.
I said, drop it!
Now!
How did you--?
Oh!
Aah!
Aah! Aah!
Ugh!
I got it wrong.
I was the sacrifice.
I was the Bishop.
Ugh.
Tail fins?
Yes. Tail fins,
whitewall tires,
two-tone paint jobs.
Oh, sure,
by today's standards
they're terrible
for the environment,
but, oh, there's something
to be said for style.
A1 Imports.
Come on, dear.
Walter, they're probably
not even--
Ye of little faith.
It's just
as I remember it.
I used to accompany Belly
here on his visits.
Not a smell
you forget.
- It smells like sweat.
- Exactly.
Hello?
Hello, sir. My name
is Walter Bishop.
I'm sorry to trouble you
so late.
I was hoping to speak
with Ms. Weisberg.
I'm sorry, who?
Lynn Weisberg.
Uh, lovely woman,
yea high.
Nice laugh.
Walter, I don't think
he knows her.
Hmm?
She's the owner.
Or she was.
I--I--
I was hoping to ask her
about a particular customer.
Oh, I think I get it.
You're talking about
that import/export company.
Well, they went
out of business,
three years ago.
Oh, I see.
Tom, do you copy?
Yes, I'm here.
Coming right now.
Look,
I have to go.
Um, thanks
for your help.
Sorry to have
bothered you.
No bother.
Maybe we should ask around.
Maybe someone else--
- Walter, he had a gun.
- What?
Well...
It's a dangerous
neighborhood.
Whatever the reason,
there are no almonds here.
Did you hear that?
Yes.
- Walter!
- Come on. Come on.
Walter.
What are those?
One of them sounds
almost like a rhino,
but more nasal.
I'm sorry. We were leaving,
and then we heard a noise.
Go and tell him
we have visitors.
Sir, I'm with the FBI.
You're making a mis--
Stop!
Hands where
I can see 'em.
Look, this is all just
a misunderstanding.
Aah!
Walter,
come on!
Oh.
Whoa! Oh!
Oh! Oh!
No!
I'm not sure I ever thought
I would see you again.
Hello,
old friend.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org